# Fine-Grained AudioVisual Event Localization

Author: Tremayne Robinson
University: Pennsylvania State University


## Abstract

Audio-visual event localization (AVEL) aims to recognize events in videos by associating audio-visual information. However, events involved in existing AVEL tasks are usually coarse-grained events. Actually, finer-grained events are sometimes necessary to be distinguished, especially in certain expert-level applications or rich-content-generation studies. However, this is challenging because they are more di GLYPH&lt;14&gt; cult to detect or distinguish compared with coarse-grained events. To better address this problem, we discuss a new setting of fine-grained AVEL from dataset to method. First, we constructed the first fine-grained audio-visual event dataset, which is called IT-A VE, relying on videos of playing musical instruments, containing 13k video clips and over 52k audio-visual events. All events are labeled from professional music practitioners, and the event categories are all derived from playing techniques, which are fine-grained with little interclass variation. Next, we designed a new fine-grained event localization method, spatial-temporal video event detector (SVED), which focuses on the challenges that fine-grained events are more imperceptible and prone to be disturbed. Finally, we conduct extensive experiments based on the proposed IT-AVE dataset versus fine-grained versions of two existing related datasets, including UnA V-22 derived from UnA V100 and FineAction-AV derived from FineAction. Experimental results demonstrate the e GLYPH&lt;11&gt; ectiveness of our method. We hope that this work will contribute to the exploration of an integrated understanding of audio-visual videos.

Index Terms -Audio-visual event localization (AVEL), multimodal learning, temporal action localization (TAL), video understanding.

## I. INTRODUCTION

A UDIO-VISUAL event localization (AVEL) [1], [2], [3], [4], [5] aims to recognize and localize the events occurring in a given video based on its audio and visual content [1], [6], [7], [8], [9]. In recent years, many research practitioners have devoted themselves to this field with success [10], [11], [12], [13], [14], [15], [16], [17]. Geng et al. [1] presented an untrimmed AVE dataset and proposed a method for event detection relying on audio-visual features. Hou et al. [8] collected a long form video dataset and proposed an eventcentered approach for locating multisensory events.

Lu Liu, Xiaochuan Li, Runze Zhang, and Liang Jin are with IEIT Systems Company Ltd., Jinan 250101, China.

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109 / TNNLS.2025.3600878

Fig. 1. Audio-visual events in the proposed IT-AVE dataset are more fine-grained. Top is from one existing dataset [1], where 'man speaking,' 'playing violin,' and 'playing harp' are completely unrelated events and easily distinguishable. Bottom is our fine-grained IT-AVE, where all events come from the instrumental techniques, making them more di GLYPH&lt;14&gt; cult to be distinguished. (a) Existing A VE dataset. (b) Our fine-grained A VE dataset.

<!-- image -->

However, in existing AVEL studies, the categories of events being addressed are usually coarse-grained. As shown in the top of Fig. 1, the actions of 'man speaking' or 'playing violin' are actually very distinguishable from each other. Actually, with the development of multimodal intelligence and pattern recognition, such coarse-grained learning tasks may not be able to continue to meet some of the user's needs [18], [19], especially in certain expert-level scenarios, such as certain fields like music, automotive, or sports [20], [21]. In these cases, events with much smaller di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erences need to be distinguished and localized. As shown in the bottom of Fig. 1, it is necessary for a professional violinist to di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erentiate between a 'legato,' a 'saltillo,' and a 'trill' in this music section. Unfortunately, current AVEL methods do not allow for such fine-grained event localization [2], [22], [23], [24]. 'Legato' and 'saltillo' may all belong to one coursed-grained category in their predictions, which could be a 'playing violin' event [1].

In this work, we explore the fine-grained AVEL task. We think this is valuable because even in nonexpert areas, this research can contribute to the development of rich content captioning [18], [25], [26], content retrieval [27], [28], [29], language-based event comprehension [30], [31], and others,

See https: // www.ieee.org / publications / rights / index.html for more information.

Fig. 2. Challenges of fine-grained AVEL task. (a) In contrast to coarse-grained datasets, fine-grained events require the model to observe spatial subtleties rather than global information. (b) Neither audio nor video is su GLYPH&lt;14&gt; cient for event localization. For the 'trill' technique of guzheng, it is di GLYPH&lt;14&gt; cult for the model to distinguish it from the 'portamento' by vision (the two look alike), and it is di GLYPH&lt;14&gt; cult to localize its boundary by audio (the tail is easily covered by other sounds). (c) Spatial information disrupt event localization. The right hand with a greater amplitude of movement would deprive more attention from the left hand that actually caused the 'violin trill' event but with a small amplitude.

<!-- image -->

which are basic multimodal research fields in recent years. To facilitate fine-grained AVEL, we constructed a new dataset, called instrument technique audio-visual events (IT-AVEs), grounded in the instrumental performance area. Unlike the existing datasets, IT-A VE contains finer-grained manual annotations. It consists of nearly 13k videos of playing musical instruments, which contain more than 52k audio-visual events of performance techniques, including an average of 4.1 events per video. It stands out among all similar existing datasets as we know. The annotations are all labeled by professional music practitioners. Di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent from the coarse-grained labeling of existing ones, the categories of the events in IT-AVE are all included from the list of techniques of professional musical instruments, which are more similar to each other. We believe that the fine-grained characteristics embodied in the ITAVE dataset can facilitate the exploration of a comprehensive understanding of audio-visual videos.

However, the fine-grained AVEL task is di GLYPH&lt;14&gt; cult for many existing methods because it presents completely new challenges. First, fine-grained events are usually manifested in subtleties rather than globally [18]. As shown in Fig. 2(a), for the coarse-grained label 'playing violin,' the object of the event is spatially obvious, whereas for fine-grained events, such as 'legato,' the target area is relatively less noticeable. Second, visual and audio information are complementary. As shown in Fig. 2(b), this 'trill' technique is much easier to categorize by listening and to locate by looking. Third, the fine-grained events are susceptible to disturbances in the spatial domain, as shown in Fig. 2(c).

To address these challenges, we have designed a new method called spatial-temporal video event detector (SVED). First, we design a multiscale spatial attention (MSA) module to enable the model to attend to the subtleties of the videos. Second, we design a enhanced modality alignment (EMA) to enhance the comprehensiveness of the fused features and thus utilize the audio and video information more e GLYPH&lt;11&gt; ectively. Third, we design a spatial disturbance elimination (SDE) to counteract the harm of spatial disturbance on the localization results. In order to validate the e GLYPH&lt;11&gt; ectiveness of the proposed SVED, we conduct experiments based on the proposed IT-AVE dataset. In addition, considering the limitations of IT-A VE in terms of domain and distribution, we introduce two existing related datasets in our experiments. Specifically, we introduce UnAV-100 [1] and release a fine-grained AVEL subset of it (called UnAV-22) to further evaluate the performance of the proposed method on other domains. In addition, we introduce the FineAction [20] dataset for fine-grained temporal action localization (TAL) tasks and measure the event localization performance of the di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent methods under audio and video inputs.

Our contribution can be summarized as follows.

- 1) We presented a fine-grained AVEL setup and constructed a new dataset based on instrumental performance scenarios with all fine-grained annotations.
- 2) We discussed three main challenges of this fine-grained AVEL task and designed a new approach, SVED, to overcome them.
- 3) We have conducted a large number of experiments based on the proposed IT-AVE dataset versus UnAV22 and FineAction-AV. The results demonstrate that our method outperforms existing models for fine-grained event recognition and localization.

## II. RELATED WORKS

## A. Audio-Visual Comprehension

Lots of methods localize action events in videos, which is defined as a TAL task. Some methods utilize the visual modality uniquely to detect events [10], [11], [12], [32]. These methods utilize the visual modality uniquely, and can be divided into two-stage and one-stage methods. Two-stage methods [10], [11], [12], [32] generate action proposals and then perform classification using separate networks, which cannot be trained end-to-end and are often with high complexity. In comparison, one-stage methods generate no proposals, and perform localization and classification using one single network, which attracts more attention. More recently, ActionFormer [13] first proposes a transformer-based model for anchor-free TAL. Then, E2E-TAD [14] conducts an empirical study of end-to-end TAD and build a mid-resolution detector, which illustrates the benefits of end-to-end training in comparison with traditional head-only learning paradigms. In addition,

TriDet [15] proposes a one-stage action detector with a tridenthead tailored for TAD, which models the action boundaries based on an estimated relative probability distribution of the boundary. TriDet-Plus [33] further proposes a feature pyramid network that incorporates spatial-level context.

However, the above methods do not utilize the abundant audio information exist in the videos. In order to utilize audio features, many researchers have made other attempts [1], [2], [3], [8], [34]. Tian et al. [2] proposed the problem of AVEL in unconstrained videos first. Based on their proposed AVE dataset, they develop an AVEL framework with audioguided visual attention and multimodal fusion. Wu et al. [3] proposed a dual-attention matching module to better model the high-level event information modeling, and obtains the local temporal information by a global cross-check mechanism. Xu et al. [34] also proposed an audio-guided visual attention module to utilize the audio signals guidance capability. In addition, they propose a relation-aware network which involves intramodality and intermodality relations for event localization. Zhou et al. [35] proposed a positive sample propagation module, which constructed an all pair similarity map between each audio and visual segment and aggregated the audio and visual features without considering irrelevant pairs. Xia and Zhao [4] proposed a cross-modal time-level and event-level background suppression to alleviate the inconsistency between the audio and visual modalities. In addition, Geng et al. [1] utilized a cross-modal pyramid transformer encoder to encode and fuse cross-modal features at various temporal scales and proposed a temporal dependency module taking simultaneous dependency and consecutive dependency into consideration. Hou et al. [8] proposed an event-centric framework containing the snippet prediction stage, the event extraction stage and the event interaction stage, which e GLYPH&lt;11&gt; ectively handles the multisensory temporal event localization task in long form videos.

In addition, Tian et al. [24] defined the audio-visual video parsing task that recognizes event categories bind to each sensory modality and finds the temporal boundaries of the recognized events. This task is usually conducted in a weakly supervised manner since weak labels are easier to annotate and larger scales of web videos could be utilized. Tian et al. [24] proposed a hybrid attention network to predict both audio and visual event labels and an attentive multimodal multiple instance learning pooling module to adaptively predict videolevel event labels for weakly supervised learning. Lin et al. [23] leveraged audio and visual data across di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent videos and tracks, and develops an audio-visual event co-occurrence module that jointly understands the class relationships within a modality and across two modalities to benefit the audio-visual video parsing task. Gao et al. [22] proposed a cross-modal presence-absence evidence learning framework, which utilizes the presence evidence within the modality itself as well as the absence evidence within the other complementary modality, to accomplish the weakly supervised audio-visual event perception task. Lai et al. [9] introduced V ALOR, a method that extracts modality and temporal labels directly from video-level annotations by utilizing modality-independent teachers such as CLIP [16] and CLAP [17]. In addition, Feng et al. [36]

and He et al. [37] have focused on bidirectional guidance of audio-visual features, which fosters e GLYPH&lt;11&gt; ective integration of the modalities, enhancing the model's understanding of audio-visual data. Jiang et al. [38] have modeled semantic consistency of events to extract semantic information at the video level. Xue et al. [39] proposed shared semantic information between audio and visual features, employing a co-attention mechanism to model correlations. Conversely, Xuan et al. [40] aligned speech and visual features with a discriminative crossmodal attention network. Wang et al. [41] integrated auditory and visual features through a semantic-relational modulation network. Liu et al. [42] enhanced multimodal feature representation using audio-guided triplet and dense intermodality attention mechanisms. Furthermore, Ge et al. [43] introduced an event-aware localization paradigm to address modality bias in AVEL, and a memory-augmented metric learning framework for event classification and localization. In a distinct approach, Bao et al. [44] pioneer unsupervised A VEL, utilizing cross-modal label contrastive learning for self-supervised cues from unlabeled data.

Although most of the related methods utilize attention modules to obtain salient features and tackle the two modalities inconsistency problem to some extent, none of the above methods deal with the fine-grained AVEL task. Fine-grained events are often spatially imperceptible, misaligned between audio and visual modalities, and susceptible to disturbance from other actions. These pose significant challenges to finegrained AVEL. In this work, we design a new architecture for these challenges and compare it with existing methods on the proposed dataset.

## B. Audio-Visual Event Datasets

Studies suggest that cross-modal learning by utilizing complementary information in auditory and visual modalities is highly e GLYPH&lt;11&gt; ective [45]. Recently, a few audio-visual datasets labeled with di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent categories of events are proposed. According to the modality utilized in labeling these categories, three kind of events can be summarized, which are audio event, visual event and audio-visual event. Early audio-visual datasets [46], [47], [48] assumed the temporal alignment between the audio and visual modalities. They categorized events within a trimmed segment based on a single modality or fused features. AudioSet [46] annotates videos without considering visual information. Kinetics-Sound [45] utilizes visual actions only to annotate a subset of Kinetics dataset [49]. VGGSound [47] considers the audio-visual events using automatic algorithms, which have many noisy data. ACAV100M [48] also considers the audio-visual events, but only provides weak labels from pretrained unimodal classifiers. The video clips in above datasets only correspond to one single event label, and thus, these datasets are suitable to audio-visual representation learning tasks.

However real-life audio-visual events need to be not only recognized but also localized with start and end timestamps. This promotes the further development of audio-visual learning. AVE [2] proposed the first dataset for AVEL, which contains 4143 videos with 28 event categories. Each video

TABLE I COMPARISON OF AI-AVE WITH OTHER VIDEO EVENT DATASETS. A: AUDIO; V: VISUAL; ME: MULTIPLE EVENTS; TB: TEMPORAL BOUNDARIES; FG: FINE-GRAINED

clip contains one audiovisual event and one audio-visual event category contains 60-188 video instances. Then, LLP [24] proposed a larger dataset with 11849 video clips with 25 event categories. Compared with AVE, each video clip in LLP contains 1.64 events on average. However, their video-level labels are weak for training. More recently, UnAV-100 [1] proposed a dataset with 100 event categories on untrimmed videos, with is much larger than AVE and LLP. Each video clip in UnAV-100 contains 2.8 events on average and 25% videos have concurrent events. In addition, LFAV [8] aimed at long form audio-visual videos and collected videos with an average video length of 210 s.

Although above audio-visual learning datasets provide valuable benchmarks, their event labels are global descriptions which are too coarse. To the best of our knowledge, there exist some fine-grained labeled video datasets in the sports or other areas [20], [21], but unfortunately they are only single-modal. There exist some fine-grained video datasets [21] in sports area, where detailed action events are annotated, but they only deal with unimodal event localization. Despite the fact that some datasets [20] consider the new fine-grained understanding in the original TAL task, they ignore audio-video fusion in the detection of these events. To the best of the authors' knowledge, there exist no fine-grained AVEL dataset, where temporal boundaries for fine-grained audio-visual event are labeled. In contrast, we propose the first fine-grained AVEL dataset grounded in instrumental performance area, including technique event categories for which the interclass variation is smaller. The proposed dataset contains nearby 13k 10-s trimmed video clips with fine-grained left-hand and righthand playing techniques annotated. We hope that the release of our dataset will further promote research on audio-visual comprehension.

## III. IT-AVE DATASET

To explore fine-grained AVEL, we construct a large-scale fine-grained audio-visual event (AVE) dataset grounded in instrumental techniques, called IT-AVE. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first fine-grained event dataset that simultaneously considers audio and vision of videos, as shown in Table I. Overall, IT-AVE consists of 12796 video clips, including a total of 52026 events, with an average of 4.1 events per clip. Since these AVEs correspond to di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent techniques for both left and right hands, there may be overlap between them. Note that since the videos in IT-AVE are primarily collected from the internet, they are only available for academic and noncommercial usage under the license of CC BY-NC-SA 4.0.

## A. Data Collection

We collected a large number of filmed instrumental playing videos from youtube 1 for the construction of AI-AVE, which consists of a large number of events of performing techniques. To guarantee that all techniques could be marked correctly, we controlled the quality of the video performances. Specifically, we screened video clips that matched classical scores, such as those by Paganini and Bach. This helped improve the labeling accuracy, as all events can be matched to a corresponding musical sheet . In this way, a labeler can refer to the score for labeling, and a proofreader can cross-check against it.

In addition, for labeling purposes, only performance videos of stringed instruments were collected. This is because the variety of movement interactions between the player and the stringed instrument leads to a richer and denser demonstrative techniques of tone visualization. For example, it is called 'saltillo' when a violinist holds the bow in his right hand and bounces it rapidly on the strings, producing a series of short, brisk, articulated notes. It is called 'legato' when the violinist draws the bow smoothly across the strings, connecting the notes seamlessly without breaks. In contrast, the techniques of nonstringed instruments, such as the trumpet, may not be as obvious in terms of tonal visualization.

However, given that each show does not always include technical events from beginning to end, the labeling project is still significant. Therefore, we executed a preprocessing program to generate candidate segments. First, we filter the music segments by setting up a script that recognizes the sheet. This is because in a sheet of music, techniques are usually

1 www.youtube.com

TABLE II CATEGORY LIST IN THE PROPOSED IT-AVE DATASET

labeled as di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent from other syllables, which makes this filtering feasible. Then, we cut the passing video into several 10-s segments and provided the annotators with an excerpt of the relevant sheet music per segment. Note that this setting is referenced from the original AVE work [2]. Ultimately, we sifted and trimmed about 14k clips from more than 1.5k original videos, covering a wide range of stringed instrument performance videos from west to east.

## B. Data Annotations

We consulted professional music performers to develop the category list. In general, we divided the string technique into left-handed, right-handed, and double-handed according to the di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erence in performing hands, and further subdivided them with the advice of professionals. Specifically, we merged the techniques that often occur in the performance of di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent stringed instruments and organized them into 13 categories, as shown in Table II. It is important to note that these 13 categories were obtained by combining a number of techniques based on di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent instruments, and they are not guaranteed to be completely accurate from a musicological point of view. In particular, techniques that have the same name may vary considerably from one instrument to another. For example, the 'trill' techniques of the zither and the violin are certainly not the same. However, because of the common denominator that they both require the rhythmic pressing of the fingers of the left hand, we categorized them together.

We hired 30 professional music performers with at least ten years of experience to annotate. All annotators were divided into two groups, with group-A consisting of relatively more senior members. First, group-A was asked to go through and identify all the technique events in the audio-visual video and give a coarse localization. Then, annotators in group-B need to check that these events are correct and compare them frame by frame to rectify the more precise time boundaries. Finally, group-A was asked to double-check the results and keep what he thought was reasonable. Note that the checker cannot be the first-step labeler for which the sample is intended. During

Fig. 3. Distribution of events among di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent categories. (a) Distribution of event number in videos. (b) Distribution of events among di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent categories.

<!-- image -->

this project, the ratio of the two groups is 1:4 because it takes significantly longer to finely label the boundaries.

## C. Data Statistic

Overall, our IT-AVE dataset contains 52026 audio-visual events of 13 fine-grained categories, distributed in 12796 video clips for over 35 h. The dataset is categorized into training, validation, and testing sets, which include 8996, 2000, and 1800 clips, respectively. As shown in Fig. 3(a), more than 80% of the video clips include more than one audio-visual events, exceeding any other similar datasets as we know. On average, each video includes about 4.1 audio-visual events, and the maximum number is 19. In addition, in Fig. 3(b), we show the frequency of occurrence of all technique categories, and we try to simulate the real sample distribution as much as possible. Unsurprisingly, some of the more di GLYPH&lt;14&gt; cult techniques, such as 'forefinger plucking,' appear less frequently, which makes the task harder but more realistic.

Fig. 4. Overview of our proposed SVED. First, SVED utilizes pretrained feature encoders for initial feature extraction and embeds the audio and visual modalities into the same dimension. With regard to the visual modality, an MSA module is additionally conducted to pay more attention on tiny events before embedding. Then, SVED performs an EMA module, which contains the feature concatenation and cross attention, to better align the feature vectors of the two modalities. In the end of EMA, SVED utilizes an SDE module in the visual branch to better handle the easily spatial-disturbed events. At last, the concatenated multimodal vectors are fed into the decoder to predict the categories and temporal boundaries of the events.

<!-- image -->

## IV. METHOD

To implement fine-grained AVEL, we design a new method, called SVED, which e GLYPH&lt;14&gt; ciently extracts discriminative features from visual modalities for recognizing small or easily disturbed events. The overall architecture of our approach is illustrated in Fig. 4.

## A. Preliminaries

1) Problem Statement: Distinct from the early AVEL task [45], [46], [47], [48], we refer to the dense-localizing audio-visual events formulation proposed in the original article of UniAV-100 [1]. SVED outputs both recognition and boundary localization results simultaneously. Specificly, given an untrimmed video clip with both visual and audio tracks, the ground-truth event set is denoted by Y = f yn = ( t s ; n ; t e ; n ; cn ) g N n = 1 , where t s ; n and t e ; n are the start and end timestamp of n th event, cn 2 f 1 ; : : : ; C g is the fine-grained event category for left-hand and right-hand events, and N is the total number of audio-visual events in the video. During inference, ˆ Y = f ˆ yt = ( ds ; t ; de ; t ; p ( ct )) g T t = 1 is required to predict, where p ( ct ) 2 R 1 × C is the probabilities of C event categories at moment t , ds ; t and de ; t are the distances between the moment t to the event's start and end timestamp, T is the number of divided visual and audio segment pairs f Vt ; At g T t = 1 . Note that fine-grained lefthand events and right-hand events are involved in the C event categories, and ds ; t and de ; t are only defined when an event presents at moment t . The final predicted localization results can thus represented as follows:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

2) Visual / Audio Representations: In this article, the visual feature vectors are extracted by the VideoMAE-v2 [50],

[51] by default, which is pretrained on Kinetics-400 [49], Something-Something V2 [52], UCF101 [53], HMDB51 [54], and AVA [55]. As a self-supervised visual learning framework, VideoMAEv2 adopts a dual-masking strategy, wherein both the encoder and decoder are masked concurrently. In particular, it employs the ViT-g / 14 [16] as the encoder backbone, incorporating multihead attention and fully connected layers in both components. To reduce computational load, the decoder is configured with a depth of 4 and a width of 512. In addition, to maintain the spatial dimensionality of the visual signal, we extract the features before pooling from the final output in the original code, 2 resulting FV = f f t v g T t = 1 2 R T × ( h × w ) × Dv , where Dv is the dimension of the embedding feature map. The audio feature vectors are extracted using the VGGish 3 [56] by default, which is pretrained on AudioSet [46], resulting FA = f f t a g T t = 1 2 R T × Da , where Da is the dimension of the embedding space.

## B. Architecture

To address the three challenges posed by fine-grained A VEL as described in Fig. 2, we propose an MSA, an EMA, and a spatial disturb elimination (SDE), respectively.

1) Multiscale Spatial Attention: Fine-grained event di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erentiation necessitates a model attuned to nuanced information, unlike coarse-grained events, as depicted in Fig. 2(a). Consequently, we incorporate the MSA mechanism to enable the model to filter and focus on key details in the space. Based on the observation that fine-grained audio-visual events are harder to observe spatially, we design this module to

2 https: // 
## C. Loss Function

We use three pairs of losses to train our model in an endto-end manner.

L ema reg and L ema cls are involved within the EMA module, which utilizes the front T × m visual feature vectors to regress the temporal boundaries and the front T × n audio feature vectors to predict the categories of the event. EMA infers the event category to which each feature in the temporal dimension corresponds, in addition to predicting the start and end time o GLYPH&lt;11&gt; sets, by leveraging dedicated audio-visual feature predictions. The computation of the loss is executed through the utilization of cross-entropy functions for event category classification and mean squared error functions for the estimation of time o GLYPH&lt;11&gt; sets.

L sde clsns and L sde cls s are involved in the SDE module, providing additional supervision for learning from disturbance-prone events, corresponding to nonspace prediction and space prediction in Fig. 4, respectively. Both are implemented based on the cross-entropy function.

Finally, the primary losses of the SVED model, denoted by L cls p and L reg p , are meticulously crafted to oversee the entire training process. The classification loss is computed using a focal loss [61] and the regression loss is computed based on generalized IoU [62].

The overall loss function for the whole architecture is formulated as follows:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where GLYPH&lt;11&gt; 1, GLYPH&lt;11&gt; 2, GLYPH&lt;12&gt; 1, GLYPH&lt;12&gt; 2, GLYPH&lt;13&gt; 1, and GLYPH&lt;13&gt; 2 are the balancing coe GLYPH&lt;14&gt; cients.

## V. EXPERIMENTS

## A. Experimental Settings

1) Implementation Details: We sample frames at 16 frames / s for each video, and feed 16 consecutive RGB frames into the VideoMAE-v2 video encoder, with a sliding window with stride 16. For each segment of one single video, the video encoder could generate visual feats with Ts × hs × ws × D , where Ts = b ( T = t ) c , hs = b ( H = h ) c , and ws = b ( W = w ) c . The video feat can be concatenated with all segments with n GLYPH&lt;3&gt; Ts × hs × ws × D . In our experiments, Ts , hs , ws , D , and n are set as 8, 16, 16, 1408, and 10, respectively. In addition, we extract 128D audio features by VGGish for each 0.96-s segment with a sliding window of 0.24-s stride. The embedding space in our MSA module as well as the EMA module is 512. The model is trained with Adam optimizer and the number of training epochs is 25 with a linear warmup of five epochs. In (2), which delineates the terms associated with various loss functions, we allocate a superior weight to the loss derived from the outputs of the principal network. Concurrently, the remaining loss components, which are instrumental in auxiliary training, are configured to incrementally rise and converge toward the primary loss function, drawing inspiration from methodologies in auxiliary training and multitask learning. Specifically, within the experimental framework of this study, the hyperparameters GLYPH&lt;13&gt; 1 and GLYPH&lt;13&gt; 2 are initialized to 1.0. The values of GLYPH&lt;11&gt; 1, GLYPH&lt;11&gt; 2, GLYPH&lt;12&gt; 1, and GLYPH&lt;12&gt; 2 are dynamically set to min(0 : 1 × 1 : 05 ep ; 1), where ep denotes the current training epoch number. In addition, the initial learning rate is 1e GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 4 and the cosine learning weight decay is set to 0.05. At last, note that during all the experiments, the number of samples used for training, validation, and testing set were set as 8996, 2000, and 1800.

2) Evaluation Metrics: The AVEL task introduced in this work necessitates not only the identification of events within video clips but also the accurate determination of their temporal boundaries. Since the mean average precision (mAP) metric assesses the model's proficiency in both event recognition and localization by computing precision scores over a range of temporal intersection over union (tIoU) thresholds, we utilize mAP as the metric for model assessment, as cited in [1]. Specifically, we report mAPs at tIoU thresholds [0.1:0.1:0.9].

## B. Datasets Used in the Experiments

Besides IT-AVE, we also conduct experiments on two other datasets, which we briefly introduce in this section.

Fig. 5. Performance of di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent methods on the IT-AVE dataset. From top to bottom represents ground truth, our proposed SVED, ActionFormer [13], E2E-TAD [14], TriDet [15], TriDet-Plus [33], UnAV [1], CACE-Net [37], CMBS-Net [4], and ESCM [38]. Each prediction's top and bottom rows indicate left-handed and right-handed technique events, respectively. The red areas indicate predictions that are completely wrong. The example illustrates that SVED outperforms other methods in both recognition and localization of AVEs.

<!-- image -->

- 1) IT-AVE: IT-AVE is our proposed fine-grained event localization dataset for stringed instrument playing scenarios. In our experiments, we used 8996 segments for training and 1800 segments for testing. See Section III for more details.
- 2) UnAV-22: UnAV-22 is a fine-grained subset of our screening based on the popular UnAV-100 dataset [1]. UnAV100 released 10790 untrimmed video clips encompassing 100 categories of events. Unfortunately, most of the categories in the class list do not meet the fine-grained definitions; for example, 'playing badminton' and 'playing volleyball' are easily distinguishable. However, we note that the UnAV-100 defines vocals at a more granular level. For example, 'man speaking' and 'woman speaking' are defined as di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent events depending on the gender of the vocalist. Similarly, 'shouting,' 'cheering,' and 'battle crying' are also labeled as di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent sounds. This is reasonable, as they are inherently di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent. However, since such di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erences are fine-grained, we filter them out and construct a new subset of the UnAV100. Specifically, we filter out 22 categories related to the human voice, which we call UnAV-22. For the convenience of the experiment, we still manipulate each segment to be 10 s in length. Ultimately, we capture 9090 audio-visual video clips containing a total of 16081 person-voice events. During the experiments, the number of samples used for training, validation, and testing set was set as 5842, 1838, and 1770.
- 3) FineAction-AV: FineAction-AV is a multimodal version of the fine-grained TAL dataset FineAction [20]. FineAction 4 is a fine-grained TAL dataset that consists of 16732 untrimmed

4 https: // codalab.lisn.upsaclay.fr / competitions / 4386

video clips and includes a total of 106 fine-grained categories in a variety of domains, including sports and exercise, socializing and relaxing, household activities, and personal care. Unfortunately, FineAction has not focused on and investigated the identity of audio modalities in localization tasks. However, audio-visual information fusion is valuable for the classification and localization of events. Therefore, we construct a subset of audio-visual videos based on it. Specifically, we collect 13099 videos from FineAction in which the audio track exists. In addition, the videos were likewise processed to a length of 10 s for experimental purposes. Note that due to FineAction's organization of the contest, the authors did not release the annotations of the testing set to the public, so we conducted the evaluation based on its validation set.

## C. Results of Fine-Grained AVEL

We conducted extensive experiments on the proposed ITAVE dataset. Specifically, we replicated and visualized the performance of recent AVEL or TAL models and validated the e GLYPH&lt;11&gt; ectiveness of the proposed method. We performed experiments including AVE [2], CMRAN [11], Action-Former [13], E2E-TAD [14], TriDet [15], UnAV [1], TriDet-Plus [33], CACE-Net [37], CMBS-Net [4], and ESCM [38] on IT-AVE and their performance can be seen from Table III. In addition, a qualitative assessment of the performance of selected methods is depicted in Fig. 5. To verify the role of the video modalities in this localization process, we separately tested their performance when the audio features were masked, as shown in the top of Table III. In addition, since our methods utilized both the visual and audio modalities, we extended

TABLE III COMPARISON OF THE mAPS AT DIFFERENT tIOU THRESHOLDS ON THE TESTING SET OF IT-AVE. THE OFF-THE-SHELF AUDIO ENCODER USED IN THESE EXPERIMENTS IS VGGish [56] AND THE VIDEO ENCODER IS VIDEOMAE-V2 [51]. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS SHOW THAT SVED OUTPERFORMS

EXISTING METHODS

the traditional TAL method by simply concatenating the audio features, like ActionFormer, E2E-TAD as well as TriDet series.

The experimental results illustrate that the proposed method performs best on IT-AVE. SVED surpasses the best TAL methods by a large margin. These results clearly show the e GLYPH&lt;11&gt; ectiveness of our proposed three components. As shown in the example given in Fig. 5, SVED can accurately recognize di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent technique events for the left and right hands. In addition, SVED is able to localize the events with a basic degree of accuracy. We believe that this is largely due to SVED's attentional approach to space, which allows the model to notice fine-grained events that are highly susceptible to being overlooked spatially. SVED is noticeably better than the other models in any of the instrumental scenarios.

Furthermore, in order to evaluate the performance of SVED on fine-grained event localization tasks more objectively, rather than only in expert scenarios of musical instrument playing, we introduce experimental results from UnAV-22

and FineAction-AV. Table IV demonstrates the evaluation metrics for UnAV-22. As described in Section V-B, UnAV encompasses 22 categories of human voices, which allows a better evaluation of the performance of AVEL methods in the domain of human speech. The results demonstrate that SVED can recognize and localize di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent human voice events more accurately. A noteworthy observation is that the performance of these methods on the UnAV-22 is not as good as their precision on the original UnAV-100. One possible reason for this is that many of the classes in the original dataset are relatively easy to distinguish, such as 'playing tennis' and 'playing badminton,' despite the fact that they are both categorized under the parent class 'sport.' However, UnAV-22 is more concerned with the fine-grained distinction of human voices, which is more di GLYPH&lt;14&gt; cult for the model. This is because vocal-related classes are inherently more similar to each other than to other events. For example, 'people shouting' and 'people cheering' are easily confused by some models.

TABLE IV COMPARISON OF THE mAPS ON THE TESTING SET OF UnAV-22. EXPERIMENTAL SETUP IS THE SAME AS TABLE III

TABLE V COMPARISON OF THE mAPS ON THE TESTING SET OF FINEACTION-AV. EXPERIMENTAL SETUP IS THE SAME AS TABLE III

TABLE VI COMPARISON OF THE mAPS ON THE TESTING SET OF UnAV-100 [1]. THE EXPERIMENTAL SETUP IS THE SAME AS TABLE III

We also evaluate the performance of these methods in more generalized domains. Table V shows the results of di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent methods in FineAction-AV. As described in Section V-B, FineAction-AV is derived from FineAction, a TAL dataset containing 106 natural event classes. The higher metrics likewise demonstrate the better performance as well as generalization of SVED. This suggests that SVED is also applicable to more common and generic events. Note that although we ensure that all videos in FineAction-AV include audio tracks, the existence of a correlation between each event and the audio cannot be guaranteed since the original FineAction dataset was not designed with audio in mind. For example, if an audio track is postdubbed, there is little or no correlation between it and that AVE. Under such conditions, SVED still outperforms other methods proving that it also understands the video better. However, further exploration of AVE datasets in generalized domains is a pressing issue in this field.

To validate the generalization ability of the proposed SVED model, we conduct a comparative evaluation of its performance against other approaches on the comprehensive

TABLE VII ANALYSIS OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THREE MAIN COMPONENTS

UnAV-100 dataset [1], as shown in Table VI. The experimental results indicate that SVED also outperforms the benchmark methods in this generic context. These findings substantiate that SVED is capable of more e GLYPH&lt;11&gt; ectively discerning between various event types, which not only distinguishes it in the context of fine-grained event recognition but also positions it as a viable solution for event detection across broader categorical domains.

## D. Ablation Studies

We also conducted ablation studies to verify the validity of the proposed MSA, EMA, and SDE modules. The quantitative experimental results are demonstrated in Table VII. It can be confirmed that, in general, all three modules, MSA, EMA, and SDE, can improve the model's detection accuracy for fine-grained AVEs. Of these, the MSA has had the greatest impact. This may be due to the fact that certain fine-grained events are, indeed, imperceptible from space. The introduction of MSA can bring specific areas to the fore, which may enable

Fig. 6. Feature visualization. The topmost part is labeled with the event that is happening in the current frame of each video. The first row of each column represents the original video frame, and rows 2-4 represent the feature maps of SVED without MSA, with MSA, and further with SDE, respectively. For clearer observation, we box out the crucial area where the events occur in the raw frames based on common sense. It can be observed that MSA causes the model to focus more on the hand area rather than the global area. Furthermore, SDE causes the model to focus on the hand in which the event occurs rather than the larger magnitude, which may be a spatial disturbance.

<!-- image -->

the model to better learn the relationship between fine-grained AVEs and subtleties.

In addition, EMA and SDE can also improve the positioning accuracy to varying degrees. This may be related to the unique challenges posed by IT-AVE. On the one hand, di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent techniques need to rely on di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent modalities for recognition and localization. For example, from a human point of view, a technique such as 'glissando,' which describes the 'trembling' of the voice, may be better recognized by 'listening.' In contrast, a technique that describes a visual movement such as finger 'tremolo' may be easier to recognize by 'watching.' The experimental results show that EMA improves the accuracy to some extent by aligning the audio-visual features. On the other hand, the AVE in the instrumental scenario must be accompanied by the disturbance between the left and right hands, and SDE can be a solution to alleviate the attenuation caused by this disturbance. In addition, we also show more details of the ablation experiments in Table III, including the MAPs at more thresholds or their details in di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent scenarios.

In addition, the feature visualization of MSA and SDE is shown in Fig. 6. It can be seen that they make the model focus more on the parts where the fine-grained events occur to some extent, which will undoubtedly improve the detection accuracy of AVE. As shown in Fig. 6, in the leftmost instance, the attention of the SVED lacking the MSA module is distracted. The entire area around the person playing the instrument is highlighted. However, this may not be reasonable, as detecting a fine-grained event may require the method to focus on the subtlety and observe it. We observe that the MSA allows SVED to focus attention around the instrument and hands, where the precise location of the event occurs. However, due to the weak signals of some fine-grained events in space-time, they are susceptible to other behaviors in the video, as we discussed in Section I. Fortunately, the introduction of the SDE

TABLE VIII ANALYSIS OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF LOSS FUNCTIONS

module mitigates the e GLYPH&lt;11&gt; ects of disruption. We can see attention being focused more on the hands where the mechanics occur, compared to if only MSA was used. Similarly, in the rightmost instance, the man's front face attracts more attention. However, the woman's eyes and mouth are where the 'big smile' can really be observed to occur. SDE is able to focus attention more precisely on this area.

Furthermore, it is worth mentioning that the introduction of EMA can enhance the performance of SDE. A potential explanation for this improvement is that the semantic alignment of audio-visual features by EMA contributes to interference elimination within SDE. Conversely, the utilization of SDE also slightly amplifies the e GLYPH&lt;11&gt; ect of the EMA module, as demonstrated in rows 2 and 6-8 of Table VII. In addition, the combined introduction of EMA and SDE yields a slightly higher gain over the baseline compared with the sum of the individual gains when each is introduced separately.

We evaluated the influence of di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent loss functions on the model's performance, as outlined in Table VIII. The outcomes suggest that the regression and classification losses within the primary pipeline backbone exert the most substantial e GLYPH&lt;11&gt; ect

TABLE IX RESULTS OF SVED WITH DIFFERENT ENCODERS. WE USE VGGish AND VideoMAEV2 WHEN COMPARING RESULTS OF THE VIDEO/AUDIO ENCODER, RESPECTIVELY

on the model's overall e GLYPH&lt;14&gt; cacy. Moreover, the integration of SDE and additional auxiliary supervisory signals contributes to a moderate enhancement in performance. Furthermore, due to the decomposed nature of the loss function into multiple branches, the masking of an individual term does not lead to the comprehensive breakdown of the method.

In addition, we choose di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent audio / video encoders to verify the performance of SVED, as shown in Table IX. Specifically, on the video encoder, we tested the performance of replacing videoMAEv2 [50], [51] with i3d [63]. On the audio encoder, we tested the performance using AST [64], Beats [65], SSLAM [66], and EquiAV [67]. The experimental results are in line with the common sense that a more powerful base backbone encoder implies better AVEL precision. In addition, the results also demonstrate the generalizability of SVED in the area of instrumental playing.

Interestingly, even when employing a high-quality model like EquiAV, the pure audio modality's score remained below that of VideoMAEv2's pure video modality. A plausible explanation lies in the inherent di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erence in feature dimensionality: video features retain higher dimensionality compared with audio, since spatial dimensions remain uncompressed in SVED. The proposed MSA module, by computing spatial attention, e GLYPH&lt;11&gt; ectively extracts salient information from these rich video features within the SVED framework. This mechanism grants the video branch a higher performance ceiling. Concurrently, this approach e GLYPH&lt;11&gt; ectively allows a portion of the video encoder to be further fine-tuned for the AVEL task. In contrast, the audio encoder, often kept frozen, presents a greater challenge for adaptation, as it cannot be similarly optimized for the specific task requirements.

## E. Limitations

1) Analysis of Failure Cases: Fig. 7 illustrates two instances of failure in the detection process by the proposed

Fig. 7. Failure results predicted by the proposed SVED.

<!-- image -->

SVED model. In the first scenario, an overwhelming amount of background laughter obscured a segment of male speech, causing the model to fail in detecting a part of the event. In the second scenario, the brevity of the female singing event, lasting merely about 0.1 s at the beginning of the video, resulted in the event being undetected by the model.

In conclusion, similar to other AVEL or temporal action localization (TAL) methods, simultaneous events or excessively short events pose challenges to the fine-grained event detection model SVED proposed in this article.

2) Future Work: In this article, we discuss the fine-grained AVEL task, ranging from the dataset to the methodology. Toward this objective, we have curated a fine-grained dataset focused on musical instrument performance, termed IT-AVE, and developed a novel method for fine-grained event detection, referred to as SVED. Nonetheless, our approach exhibits certain limitations that necessitate further investigation.

First, the IT-AVE dataset is primarily focused on the music domain, and its comprehensive annotations render it an appropriate choice for both training and evaluation purposes in the context of fine-grained event localization within this domain. However, it should be noted that the availability of multimodal fine-grained datasets for broader domains is still limited. We encourage the research community to further investigate and contribute to the development of such datasets. Second, fine-grained event delineation is susceptible to spatial noise interference. Current AVEL methods are hindered by the lossy compression of visual features in the spatial domain, setting a performance floor. This study addresses this issue with the introduction of modules such as MSA and SDE, though this may compromise computational e GLYPH&lt;14&gt; ciency relative to conventional methods. Enhancing e GLYPH&lt;14&gt; ciency is a priority in our ongoing research, with end-to-end training as a potential solution. Third, the proliferation of audio-visual large models [68], [69], [70] has opened new avenues for AVEL research. The zero-shot reasoning capabilities of these models, along with their ability to interface with arbitrary events via

open-text input, are remarkable. While their performance on localization tasks lags behind classification or captioning, we believe that exploring fine-grained event localization based on MLLMs holds both potential and interest.

## VI. CONCLUSION

We discuss the task of fine-grained AVEL in this work. First, we constructed a fine-grained audio-visual event dataset, called IT-AVE, based on instrumental performance scenes, including 13k video clips and 52k event annotations. After that, we designed a new approach called SVED. In this approach, we introduce the MSA module to solve the challenge of spatially imperceptible fine-grained events. We design EMA to address the challenge that audio-visual information are not easily aligned. We propose SDE to address the problem that fine-grained events are susceptible to disturbance by other spatial information and are di GLYPH&lt;14&gt; cult to detect. Finally, we conducted extensive experiments. In order to more fairly evaluate the performance of the proposed SVED on AVEL tasks in di GLYPH&lt;11&gt; erent domains, we conducted experiments based on three datasets: IT-A VE, Unav-22, and FineAction-AV. The results demonstrate that the proposed method performs well in the task of localizing musical instruments, human vocals, and other daily events. In addition, the e GLYPH&lt;11&gt; ectiveness of the proposed modules is illustrated by ablative study results. Finally, we address the shortcomings of the proposed method and dataset, along with potential future work. We hope that this work will contribute to research on audio-visual video understanding and fine-grained recognition in the community.
